Let's talk about level unlocks in Unity. So,
in this video you will dig-up your old PlayerPrefsManager,
add code to handle level unlocks, and create
a simple proof of concept. So firstly, we've
done Player Prefs Management before, so here's
all the project folders for the course, I've
got them all organized here. Now, remember
you can get hold of all of this stuff on GitHub,
so I'm not actually going to give the PlayerPrefsManager,
this time. I'm going to say if you want to
get it, then to to GitHub/BenTristem, click
through down here to the Complete Unity Developer.
Go find the project in question, which I don't
know what that is yet, let's have a look.
playerprefsmanager.cs. Ah ha! Here we go,
I've only got one across all the projects,
and that was in Glitch Garden. So, that will
be the latest version. And if you've done
lots of different games and lots of projects,
which I hope you're going to do, I hope you're
going to make lots and lots of games; then,
this is quite a common way of doing things.
Say well, what's the latest, what's the best
version of this thing I've got? Well, for
me it's this one, it's here in Glitch Garden.
The way that you can get to it is, go to www.github/CompleteUnityDeveloper,
got to Glitch Garden, which is there, then,
what you can do is you can simply browse into
Assets, and then, you can go through to Scripts
and you'll find PlayerPrefsManager in there.
I hope! There it is! OK, so that's one way
of getting to it. The other way is you can
go download the whole Glitch Garden project
here, Download Zip, on the bottom-right. or
of course you could just go and get yours,
go and get your version of it. OK fantastic!
So, let's get the PlayerPrefsManager over
here into our Assets. So, that's a simple
job. If I click on the right thing, it's a
simple job. Here we go, PlayerPrefsManager
is imported. Now, a bit of a mess in here
now. I don't really like that, so I'm going
to create a new folder. Now, not scripts,
as I discussed earlier, I'm just going to
do folders a different way this time. I'm
just going to call it Managers or Structure
or Game. Ah, just call it Game, who cares.
I just want to show you that there's a load
of different ways of naming folders, right,
and I'm going to pout all of these things
in the Game Folder. So, I've got the beams.
I'm doing it by object really, the Beams,
the Editor, I need an Editor Folder, because
it's the Editor Script, it's a reserved folder
name you can't change that one. Game, I've
just created randomly, as you saw. Player
is all the things about the Players, so scripts
and prefabs for the player, and then, Standard
Assets again is a standard folder. OK cool!
Let's take a look at the PlayerPrefsManager.
The idea is that we're going to orchestrate
level unlocks, so we've already kind of started
this. We've added a constant, in here, string
called Level_Key, all in capitals, because
it's a constant, and I just want to use a
different convention. And what we're saying
here, is that we're going to pre-fix whatever
we write to the PlayerPrefsManager, with "level_unlocked_".
And remember the reason we're doing this,
is because if we just throw things into PlayerPrefsManager,
we don't really know what we've stored in
it, and going through this layer here, allows
us to know what we've stored, so we have getter
and setter functions effectively, for all
of this stuff. So, actually this work has
already been done. Look UnlockLevel (int level),
and then it says that if the level is less
than the application level count, then set
an integer. So, if you say UnlockLevel 2 and
there aren't at lest two levels... Actually,
yeah that's right, if there aren't at least
two levels, remember that the Application.levelCount
starts at 0. Let's take a look that. Unity,
File, Build Settings... You see it starts
reading at 0. So, this check just said let's
make sure that there are already enough levels
for you to say, let's unlock that level. If
it's not in the Build Order, you can't unlock
it. So, that's what that's doing there, if
it does, it writes the integer, here into
the Player prefs, as "level_unlocked_", which
is this bit here, plus the level number to
a string. So, what it would be writing here,
of we said unlock level 2 would be "level_unlocked_2",
and that's it really. And then, it sets that
integer to 1 for true. Pretty messy but that's
the whole point of having this interface.
And then, we can ask the question, is this
level unlocked? We ask it the question, and
it goes ahead and does a little bit of stuff
to either return that the level is unlocked
or not, or it can complain that the level
you're trying to unlock is not in the build
order. So, let's go ahead and make this work.
In fact, why don't you go ahead and make this
work. So, I want you to demonstrate level
unlocks to yourself. I want you to convince
yourself the system works, by adding just
some very simple test level and making sure
that you can see how level unlocks work.I'm
not going to build all the user interface
for it, of course that's relatively simple
once you know that the underlying code works,
you could easily make user interface to represent
level unlocks. Remember games like Rayman,
by the way, have a look at Rayman Legends,
for example. It's a fantastic example of how
level unlocks can be made fun. You run around
in the game space, and you actually physically
see that a level is locked and that works
really well. Welcome back! So, I'm going to
cover this pretty quick, because it is basically
revision. So, taking a look at our PlayerPrefsManager,
remember we chose to make all these methods
static? That's because it makes sense here,
there is only one set of levels to work on
it. It's pretty safe to use these things as
statics, these are global pieces of information
to the entire game. So, back in Unity, what
I've done is created two new scenes and just
saved them as Test and Test 2. And then, what
you need to do is for any scenes that you
want, you need to make sure that they are
in the build order, of course. So, there they
are, with indexes 0, 1, and 2. So, with these
static methods, we can now just call them
from anywhere, so I'm going to go to the Game
Manager, for example, and in void Stat I'm
just going to try a couple of things and just
convince myself very quickly that the Player
Prefs management works. And then, it's up
to you in your game to go ahead and really
make this work with level unlocks and a nice
user interface, etc. Again, I'm weaning you
off me showing you how to do everything. So,
it's just to remind you how to do this, this
has been a commonly requested thing. PlayerPrefsManager.UnlockLevel
and we could unlock level number (2); for
example, and that's fine. And then, we could
print player prefs manager, and by the way
I've named this PlayerPrefsManager like this,
so when you start typing PlayerPrefs and you're
tempted to use it, you can immediately underneath
see that actually we've written our own PlayerPrefsManager.
That's one of the reasons I start with the
same root word, to remind us to use our own.
Is level unlocked 0 or 1? Let's say is level
1 unlocked? Let's print that out, and then,
let's also print out is level 2 unlocked?
And you can see that with these simple Boolean
statements, we could use that to do lots of
cool things. Let's just run the game and see
what happens. Now, I'm going to suppress these
writing of frames, so one way of doing that
is to stop or pause the game. Double click
and it will show you the very line of code,
that is writing it out. So, I'm either going
to comment or in this case, I think I'll just
delete. Let's go back again. So, that's the
way of getting rid of login entries quickly.
You double click, it takes you right the line
that's creating them. And this is saying that
the first print statement is false and the
second print statement is true. So, when we
ask the question in the Game Manager, is level
1 unlocked, it says false. Level 2 is unlocked,
because we've said we want it unlocked. So,
the levels are defaulting to locked or not
unlocked by default, which is why level 1
is false, and then, we can unlock them. So,
it's really simple to be honest, but it's
pretty handy and it's being written to persistent
storage remember. That's the point of using
this PlayerPrefsManager, it's being written
onto the Player's device, and this is a reasonable
thing to use level unlocks for. Now, one quick
word of warning, is that player prefs are
completely un-incripted on a target device,
so if it matters if you've got some sort of
community who are highly competitive, then
be careful, because it's very easy for them
to go into the player prefs, find this key,
and just unlock levels themselves, but that's
only for advanced kind of people who could
hack the game. Probably mainly for PC, Mac,
Linux and upper platforms. OK fantastic! So,
I will see you soon.